Eaxmple issue: 

    (define x 100) 
    (add1 (add1 x))
    (if (> x 0) (+ x 1) (- x 1))

will return 101. (add1 x) has no side effects - it doesn't change the value
of x. 

Don't need to know for test: Variatic function (in most languages) is a
function of a variable number of arguments. Can be dificult in other
languages. (has been implemented in more recent versions of programming
languages.) It's been in lisp since day one. 


Sets
====
Lists and recursion to sets. Want 3 set operations: 

* Union
* Intersection
* Difference

want a new function: 

    (define (set-add thing set) 
    ;; returns a set formed by adding thing to set
    (if (member thing set) set (cons thing set)))

If the thing is already in set, then adding the thing to the set yeilds
just the set. 

    (define (set-union S1 S1)
    ;; returns the union of sets S1 and S1
    (if (null? S1) 
        S2
        (set-add (car S1) (set-union (cdr s1) s2)))) 

    (define (set-intersection S1 S1) 
    ;; returns the intersection of sets s1 and s2
    (cond ((null s1)nil)
          ((member (car s1) s2)
           (set-intersection (cdr s1) s2))
           (#t (cons (car s1) (set-intersection (cdr s1 s2))))))

    

Reverse

    (define (reverse L) 
      (if (null? L) null (append (reverse (cdr L))(list (car L)))))
              
Programs on file
================
* use any text editor to create program. 
* Save program on a file with extension ss. 
* `(load "foo.ss")` loads foo.ss
* `(load "foo.bar")` loads foo.bar
* Each s-expression in the file is read and evaluated. 

lisp lists
==========
* Lists in lisp are just simple single linked lists. 
* each node has a pointer to or a value (car) and a pointer to the next
  node (cdr) 
* the last node's cdr points to null. 
* Lists are immutable in Scheme. 
* Typical access pattern is to traverse the list from its head processing
  each node. 
* cons cell = pair of pointers/node in list. 
* Can be used to represent pairs of any type. 

Does lisp have pointers? 
========================
* A secret to understanding lisp is to realize that variables have values
  in the same way that lists have elements. 
* EVERYTHING is a pointer. 

