Tail Recursion
==============

* Recurision is elegant. Can be implemented with just functions. Easy to
  analyze formally. 
* Some languages have no iteration at all. (Prolog) 
* **Problem**: It's less efficient. Context savin and restoration. 
* **Problem**: Running out of stack space leands to failure of deep
    recursion. 
* Modern CPUs are built to go fast, not necessairly change context. 

What is tail recursion? 
=======================
* *Tail Recursion* is a pattern of use that can be compiled or interpreted
   as iteration, avoiding inefficiencies. 
* A *Tail Recursive Function* is one where every recursive call is the last
  thing done by the function before returning and thus roduces the
  function's value. 
* More generally, we identify some procedure calls as *tail calls*.

What is a tail call?
====================
A *tail call* is a procedure call inside another procedure that returns a
value which is then immediately returned by the calling procedure. 

	def foo(data): 
		bar 1(data) 
		return bar2(data)

	def foo(data): 
		if test(data): 
			return bar2(data)
		else: 
			return bar3(data) 
		
Tail calls: : 
* `return bar2(data)` (First "program") 
* `return bar2(data)` (second "program") 
* `return bar3(data)` (second "program") 


Tail Call Optimization
----------------------
When using tail calls, the intermediate function states can be removed from
the stack. The context can be discarded. 

* When a function is called, we must remember the place it was called from
  so we can return to it with the result when the call is complete. 
* This is typicall stored on the call stack. 
* There is no need to do this for tail calls
* Instead, we leave the stack alone, so the newly created function will
  return its result directly to the original caller. 
  
Scheme's top level loop
=======================

	(define (repl)
		(printf "> ")
		(print (eval (read)))
		(repl))

The call to (repl) is replaced with a loop -> the stack will not grow and
overflow. 


Fancier REPL
------------

	(define (repl) (repl1 0))
	(define (repl1 n)
		(printf "~s> " n)
		(print(eval(read)))
		(repl (add1 n)))
		
Once again, this gets optimized into iteration. 

Even fancier REPL
-----------------

	(define (repl1 n)
		(printf "~s> " n)
		(print (eval(read)))
		(if (= n 9)
			(repl1 0)
			(repl1 (add1 n))))

Either of the calls to repl1 are considered tail calls. 

* `=` is strictly for comparing numbers. 

Two Skills
----------

* Distinguish a tail-recursive call from a non tail-recursive call. 
* Being able to rewrite a function to eliminate its non-tail-recursive
  calls. 

Reverse with tail recursion: 
----------------------------

	> (define (rev2 list) (rev2.1 list empty))
	> (define (rev2.1 list reversed)
		(if (null? list) 
		reversed
		(rev2.1 (rest list) (cons (first list) reversed))))
		
Why does tail recursion matter? 
===============================

* repeated rebuilding of lists is needless work. 
* Uses up memory and adds to the cost of Garbage colection. 
* GC adds signifigant overhead to the cost of any system that uses it. 
* Experience programmers avoid algorithms that needlessly consume meory
  that must be garbage collected. 

Recursive fib: 
--------------
	(define (fib2 n)
		(cond ((= n 0) 0)
		((= n 1) 1)
		(#t (fib-tr n 2 0 1))))
	(define (fib-tr target n f2 f1 )
		(if (= n target)
			(+ f2 f1)
			(fib-tr target (+ n 1) f1 (+ f1 f2))))

Downsides: 
----------

* Many languages don't optimize tail calls, including C, Java, and Python. 
* recursion depth is constrained by the space allocated for the call
  stack. 
* This is a desig decisision that might be justified by the *worse is
  better* principle. 
* recursion is elegant and powerful control mechanism. 
