More perl
=========

Matching = m, 
Substitution = s
Translation = t

	if ($a =~ m/hello/)
		{ print "found \"hello\""; } 
		
Other delimiters are premitted. when using / as delimiters, m is not
required. 

Substitution
------------
Syntax: "s/old/new/" Using the g modifier at the end will make the
substitution global. 

Translation
-----------

$a = "All bugs Crunch"; 
$a =~ tr/ABC/abc/; 
print $a; 

Perl lets you use full regular expressions. 

* Character sets: `[XYZ]` 
* A range: `[A-Z]`
* all but some set, such as non digits: `[^0-9]` means negation. **HAS TO
  BE FIRST CHARACTER** 
* One of a set of predefined character classes, referenced with \X: 
* \d digit
* \w word
* \s whitespace

A range of times can be inserted with {}. Example
	    /[a-zA-Z0-9]{1-8}\.[a-z]{1-3}/

1-8 alphanumeric chars, followed by a dot and a 1-3 file extension. Might
be useful for a windows 8.3 filename. 

Capturing what was matched: 
---------------------------

* Pick specfic parts of the matched pattern and use it elsewhere. wrap
  parts of the regex in parenthesis and use $1, $2, etc. 
  
----
	
	$str="---XYZ:aaa:XYZXYZ:ccc:"; 
	$str =~ /([XYZ]+:)/; 
	print $1; 
	
this will match just "XYZ:" because it always matches the first one. 

----
	
	$str="---XYZ:aaa:XYZXYZ:ccc:"; 
	$str =~ /([abc].*:)/; 
	print $1; 
	
This will match "aaa:XYZXYZ:ccc:" because regex is greedy. 

----

Trying to match xml tags: 

	$a =~ /<[\w]*>/; 
	# Won't find some stuff. 
	
	$a =~ /<.*>/; #will work for simple tags by themselves, 
	#but runs into some issues with matching <a>link</a> entirely. 
	
	$a =~ /<[^>]*>/; 
	#This does exactly what we want. 
	
Whitespace bounded substring: 
	$a =~ /\s[^\s]+\s/; 
	
### Done with basic concepts. 

Contexts
========

$, @, and % occupy different namespaces. 

using and/or without if. 

	open(HANDLE, "myflie.txt") or die "bad file!"; 
	
	open(HANDLE, "myfile.txt") and @file = <HANDLE>; 
	
	bla if (expr); 
	bla unless (expr); 
	bla while (expr); 
	bla until (expr); 
	
	#Can do things like: 
	
	open(STDIN, $fname) if $fname ne ""; 
	
Defining functions
------------------

	sub my_add
	{ 
		my $num1 = $_[0]
		my $num2 = $_[1]
		#or use this: 
		($num1, $num2) = @_; 
		return $num1 + $num2; 
	} 
	
	#To call the function: 

	$val = &my_add(37, 10); 
	print $val; 
	
Perl has Lexical **AND** dynamic scope. 

By default, all variables are in global scope. To make it locally scoped,
use the `my` keyword. 

	my $count = 1;

Running external programs: use ` just like shells. 

	my @ls_output = `ls -l ~park` 
	
	foreach $file_desc (@ls_output) 
	...

Perl issues:
============
* Bends/breaks principles of simplicty and orthogonality. 
* "There's more than one way to do it." = TMTOWTDI. 
* Perl is not orthogonal, but rather "diagonal." 
* Perl has both "if" vs. "unless", "while" vs. "until". 
