<link href=http://notes.joshgordon.net/style.css rel=stylesheet></link>

CMSC 331
========

April 2nd, 2013
---------------
Guest Lecturer: Tim Finin. 


lisp
====


**Why do we study  a programming language that's older than Doctor Who?**

* Most people who have used lisp know that it's a language with a lot of powerful primitives. 


* Scheme example: 


        (define (square n)
    
        ;;return square of a numeric argument
        (* n n ))


* widely used language in the 60s, 70s, 80s, lots for AI stuff. 

* Nice to use a read-eval-print loop language instead of a compiled language. 

* Side effects on the world by running functions. `(print 3)` is an instance of a function used for 
  side effect of function and not return value. 

Examples of Side Effects: 

* changing something in the world. 
* launching missles. :p 


Side effects in doing various stuff...

Machines are literal minded and stupid. (I'm sorry computer. :'( )

Writing an interepreter for a subset of scheme inside scheme. Everything has to be interpreted 
at some level... 


Built in scheme datatypes:
==========================

Basic datatypes: 
----------------

* Booleans
* Numbers
* Strings
* Procedures
* Symbols
* Pairs and Lists

The Rest: 
---------
* Bytes & Byte Strings
* Keywords
* Characters 
* Vectors
* Hash Tables
* Boxes
* Void and Undefined

The rest can be built out of the basic datatypes. Some of them might be implemented in C++, etc. 

Any language needs Booleans. Lisp has **T** and **NIL** 

**NIL**: stands for empty list or false

**T** : stands for true. Basiclaly everything that isn't false. (Anything non-nil is true...)

Modifications by scheme for cleaning up lisp
--------------------------------------------

* **#t** is true, **#f** stands for false 
* **#f** means false, everything else is true *in practice.* 
* Scheme represents empty lists as the literal () 

Scheme can store rational numbers: `(/ 1 3)` represents 1/3rd. 

> You could ask the TA, Mr. Google. 

Things scheme has: 

* Integers (42) - Infinite precision ints. 
* Floats (3.14) 
* Rationals(/ 1 3) 
* Complex numbers: ( * 2 + i ...) 

Strings
-------

* Strings: prints with double quotes, etc.

        "foo" 
        "foo bar\n" 
        "foo \"bar\""
* Srings are immutable, as usual. 
* Strings evalutate to themselves. 

Predicates
---------- 
* A predicate (in any computer language) is a function that returns a boolean value
* In lisp and scheme, predicates return either #f or, often, something that isn't #f and 
  might be useful as a value. 

###Example: 
* The member function returns true IFF it's first argument is in the list that is its second: 

        (member 300 (list 1 "foo" (+ 100 200)))

This will evaluate to `'(300)` 

        (member -300 (list 1 "foo" (+ 100 200)))

This will evaluate to `#f` 

* Member returns the rest of the list including the found value. This always intreprets to true. 

Lists were the only data structures in all of lisp. 

Scheme does have objects, but we probably won't be using them... 

Simple Evaluation Rules
-----------------------

* Numbers evaluate to themselves
* `#t` and `#f` evaluate to themselves
* Any other atoms represents variables and evaluate to their values. 
* A list of n elements represents a function call: 

    eg (add1 a) 

    Evaluate each of the n elements (eg., add1 -> 1 procedure, a -> 100) 

    Apply the function to the arguments and return value. 


Definine varaibles: `(define a 100)` 

* if is a special case - it doesn't evaluate all of the arguments - otherwise something like: 

        (if (> 1 2) (print "bigger") (print "smaller"))

    would print both bigger and smaller. 

* putting a literal `'` in front of something we don't want to evaluate. 

        (symbol? 100)  : #f
        (number? 100)  : #t
        (symbol? 'foo) : #t
        (number? 'foo) : #f

* Might use lists as some kind of data structure: 

        '((name john)(age 100)(major CMSC))

    could be used to define a student. 

* lisp doesn't care at all what characters are used as variable names. 

Lists
-----

* Need operations to put lists together...

* `car` : Returns the head of a list. Has an alias in scheme: `first`.

        (car '(123)) => 1
        (first '(123)) => 1

* `cdr` : Returns the tail of a list. Has an alias in scheme: `rest`. 

        (cdr '(123)) => (2 3) 
        (first '(123)) => (2 3) 

* `cons` Stands for CONStruct, constructs a new list beginning with it's first arg and continuing with its second. 

        (cons 1 '(2 3)) => (1 2 3)

* Original lisp had 7 functions: 3 of them were `car`, `cdr`, `cons`. 
* Started as a small languages with a few pieces with precise mathmatical definitions: rest of language was 
  written in lsip itself. 

More basic functions
--------------------

* `eq?` determins whether or not two s-elements are equal. 

        (eq? 'foo 'foo) 

    Just a pointer test - just like Java's. 

        (eq? '(1 2) '(1 2)) => #f since the lists pointers are different. 

* `equal?` tests two list structures: 

        (equal? 'foo 'foo) 

    tests list sctructure, so: 

        (equal? '(1 2) '(1 2)) => #t
