
Functional Programming in lisp
==============================

* Eval: Takes an s-expression and evaluates it. 
* Apply: applies an operator to a list of arguments. 
* Lambda: special expression form with specific syntax, first list is list
  of parameters and second is a function. Creates a function. 
* Map: takes a function and some lists and returns a list of the results of
  applying the function to the elements taken from each list. 
* Filtering functions: Every and some. 
* Filter: collects elements of an original list that match a predicate. 

        <end of review> 

Another Pattern
===============

	(define (sum-list l) 
		(if (null? l) 
			0
		(+ (car l) (sum-list (cdr l)))))
	
	(define (prod-list l) 
		(if (null? l) 
			1
		(* (car l) (sum-list (cdr l)))))
		
Very similar, just the base case and the operator that are different. 

Reduce
------

Reduce takes a list, a final value, and a function. 

	(define (reduce function final list)
		(if (null? list) 
			final
			(function 
				(first list) 
				(reduce function final (rest list)))))
				
Function Composition
====================
Compositioin of g and h. f(x) = g(h(x))

done in lisp: 

    > (define (sq x) (* x x))
	> (define (dub x) (* x 2))
	> (sq (dub 10))
	400
	> (dub (sq 10))
	200
	
	> (define sd (compose sq dub))
	> (sd 10)
	400
	> ((compose dub sq) 10)
	200

Defining it ourselves
---------------------

	(define (compose2 f g)(lambda (x) (f(g x))))
	
	(define compose2 (lambda (f g) (lambda (x) (f(g x)))))
	
	

Variatic Functions
------------------

Takes a variable number of args: 

	(define (foo . args) ... )
	
Can aslo do: 

	(define (foo x y . args) ... )


Compose: 
	
		(define (compose . FS) 
			if (null? FS)
			   (lambda (x) x)
			   (lambda (x) ((first FS) ((apply compose (rest FS)) x))))
			   
x
