Cultural transformation in the 1970s. 

1975: Tom Wolfe published article in New York Magazine, "ME Decade"

Popular culture shifting focus to the individual. "Culture of Narcicsim" 

> Broken User Interface, MS oFfice, update dialog. 

Most people throughout US history are just trying to get through the day. 

Major trends (Domestic): 
* Stagflation
* Electorate is Republican and conservitavie
* southerinzation of the Republican Party
* Southernization of America
* Women & Poverty
* Emergence of a recoginizable Black Middle Class
* Gay rights backlash as part of a growing backlash against "60s"

Politics of me
==============
* Health and fitness
* Self Help books
* Sex
* Drugs
* Spirituality. 

Health and Fitness: 
-------------------
Running took off. Before this time, health/fitness hadn't really taken
off... Running and jogging. Waking up at rediclious hours of the morning to
work out... 

Nautilus Equipment - allowed most people to work out. 

Ugly sweatpants and converse shoes => ADIDAS, Nike, Rebock, Puma popping up
and marketing exercise clothes. 

Not necessairly a bad thing, but can be considered some form of an
obsession. 

Self Hel[lp] books
------------------
Somewhat akin to "Zombie Fiction". All about trying to make everything feel
okay. "I'm okay, you're okay." 

"The Joy of Running" -> 300 page book on how to run. 

Fresh/organic foods: Used to be a concern of Hippies, now has become
mainstream culture. 

Sex
---
Sex and Drug revolution: Challenging norms going mainstream. 

Proliferation of "Mainstream Pornograpy." Rivals to Playboy et. al. Far
more explicit. Rise in Female Initiated Sexual Contact. 

College Park went from having Dorm Hours to co-ed dorms in a year and a
half. 

Drugs
-----
smoking -> cocaine. Going broke addicted to Cocaine/Crack. Weed is so
profitable that some police officers sold them. Rural & Urban poor
affected. 

Jamaca starts exporting drugs. Corruption, crime, and voilence come after
that. 

Spirituality
------------
Beatles seeking transendential meditation. Then moved on to other things. 

Christians taking off, "Jesus Freaks." Mainline Christian. Everyone moved
to Baptist. Also independent Christian Churches. 

Cult of Death: 
==============

Jonestown, "Jim Jones." Moved by social issues. Founded independent
Christian Church, found in the city. 

Soemwhere along the line, something ahppened and it turned into a
cult. Began to tell his followers to worship him, claiming that he was the
way to God. Takes most of his followers and builds "Jonestown" to get away
from the government. 

November 1978, "Drinking the Kool-Aid." Laced with Cyanide. ~815 died. Some
ran off into the woods. 

Heaven's gate - mass suicide, thought that they would join some UFO
somewhere. 

Disco -> Mindless music. That's the culture. 

Country ready for a change
==========================
* Watergate
* Veitnam
* Revelations of wrong-doing
* energy crisis
* Iran Hostage Crisis
* The 60s

Needs new leadership, new outlook. Comes with... 

Rise of Conservatism
--------------------

Ronald Reagan, 489/49 win over Carter. 

Stagflation: Because of the energy Crisis,  because of the cost of Vietnam,
because of the oil crisis, the economey started to go down the tube. 

A 2 income family was necessary to maintin a standard of living. 

Conservatism
============
Dominating the republican party. 

What do conservatives stand for? 
* Small government
* Low taxes
* Strong defense
* Traditional values
* Patriotism 

Moving back to the old styles. Reemphasize and expand the role of 
