Last lecture on Scheme/Lisp
===========================

Closures
========

A **Closure** is a function that remembers the environment in which it was
created. Also create new closures. 

An **Environment** is just a collection of variable names and their values,
as well as a concept of a parent environment. 

Turn out to be very useful in languages that support functional
programming. Most modern dynamic PLs do: Python, JS, Perl, Ruby

Example: Make-counter
---------------------

	(define (make-counter) 
		(let ((C 0))
		    (lambda () 
				(set! C (+ 1 C))
				C)))
				
This function, when executed, will return a new function that counts. 

	> (define c1 (make-counter))
	> (c1)
	1
	> (c1) 
	2
	> (c1) 
	3
	> (define c2 (make-counter))
	> (c2) 
	1
	> (c1) 
	4
	> (c2) 
	2

What is a function in lisp? 
---------------------------

	(define (add1 x) (+ x 1))

This binds the variable add1 to a new fuction. 

In scheme, a function is just a data structure with 3 components: 

1. Parameter list (x) 
2. an expression to evaluate (+ x 1)
3. a pointer to the variable environment it was defined in. 

What is an environment? 
-----------------------

An environment is a data struture with 2 parts: 

1. A pointer to its parent environment (Which might be null if this
   environment is the top-level global one) 
2. A data structure to hold pairs of variable names and their current
   values. (e.g., s dictionary, hash table, etc.) 
   
Optional arguments in scheme
============================


	>(define (f (x 10) (y 20)))
	
`x` defaults to 10, `y` defaults to 20. 

Perl
====

* Practical Extraction and Report Language. 
* Created in 1987 by Larry Wall. 
* Hybrid model: source is compiled to intermediate form at start of each
  execution, unlike java which is precompiled. 
* Sits at intersection between general interpreted language and special
  purpose text processing languages like sed and awk, and scripting
  lanugages like shell scripts. 
  
Background
----------

* Original purpose was to apply power of programming to text
  manipulation/processing. 
* Has grown into a general-purpose language; but, "perl is above all a text
  processing language." (Wall et al.)
* Much more powerful and flexible than stream-based editors or token-based
  text reprocessing (sed and awk) 
* Extremely powerful pattern matching operators, combined with full C-like
  control flow primitives, and extensibility (via perl or C) 
* Fills huge gap between C/Java/Python and awk/sed
* Dynamic language. runtime can change parts of language behavior. 
* Very portable. 
* Very popular, web server (mod_perl), BioPerl
* Extensive set of add-on moules: CPAN: Comprehensive perl archive
  network. 
  
Syntax
------

	#!/usr/bin/perl
	print "Hello world!\n"; 
	
* Last semicolon is optional in *most* cases. 
* In *most* cases, whitespace is optional. 
* In *most* cases, syntax is similar to c/java. 
