Review for Homework. 
===========

(Hopefully going to be the last lecture on scheme...) 

(lambda X blah) -> X becomes the whole args list. 

Time for perl
=============

Primitive Data types
--------------------
Perl has basic standard data types: Numbers and strings, plus more complex
aggregates (arrays, hashtables, etc) 

Type set is simplified - all numbers are effectively floats. All characters
and strings are represnted as sequences. 

Numbers are implied by quotes, (single or double), numbers are implied by
digits (and some special characters) 

Booleans are implied by interpretation: Strings: "0", "", or null are
false. All else is true. 

Numbers: 0 is false, all else is true. 

Scalars, arrays, ahd hashes
---------------------------
Perl is a loosely typed or dynamically typed. No declarations. All the
primitive types are treated as scalars. 

An array, or list, is a collection of things indexed by numerical position
starting at 0. 

A has is also a collection, but indexed by a string value: the
key. Underlying representation is a hash table, thus the name. 

Variables
=========
Variables are all prefixed by one or anotehr special synbol, so will not
conflict with keywords. 

* Scalars: Variables begin with $, such as

        $name = "Mary"; 
	$age = 21; 

* Arrays: variables begin with @, such as: 

        @ages = (19, 19, 20, 17); 

* Hashes: variables begin with %: 

        %grades = ("Jim" => 2.5, "mary" => 4.0, "Rob" => 4); 
	
	# Can also just use an equal number of elements separated by commas. 
	
	%profs = ("Jim", "J. Park", "Mary", "J. Park", "Rob", "T. Finin");

Accessing array members: 

    @ages = (19, 19, 20, 17); 
    $my_age = $ages[2]; 
    $other_age = $ages[-1] #last element in the array. Just like
		     	       #python. 

Access elements in hash tables with "{}" 

    $rob = $grades{"Rob"}; 

Use $ to return a scalar value out of an array/hash table. 

Getting the size of an array: 

    $size = @some_array

Getting the index of the last element of an array: 

    $last = $#some_arary; 

Using an array as a push down stack: 

    push(@some_array, "last thing"); 
    $last = pop(@some_array); 

Pop sets $last to the string "last thing" as well as restoring @some_array to its original state. 

Push and pop are built in functions and not necessairly written in perl. 

Refersing an array: 

    @rev_array = reverse(@some_array); 

Assignment operators (Almost identical to C and java): 

    $name = "Susan"; 
    $age += 1; 
    $num_left -= 10; 

Arithmetic operators are as would be expected. 

For numerical values, comparision and operators are the usual. 

        if ($val < $limit) ... 

Logical operators: && || ! as well as "and", "or", "not": Same semantics
but different precedence. (And or not much lower. 

Logical operators don't return boolean - return last thing evaluated. 

    $a = ($x_is_defined and $x) or $default_value; 

If x is defined, $a will become x. Otherwise, it will become
$default_value. COOL. 

String operators
----------------

    $first_name = 'john'; 
    $last_name - "Doe"; 

Inside single quotes: 
* Can use double quotes
* Escapes like \n are treated literally. 

Inside double quotes only: 
* Can use single quotes
* special escapes like \n, \t are interpreted. 
* can interpolate ("substitute in") variables: 

        # "$name" in literal replaced with its value: 
        $output = "Hello $name, how are you?"; 

(will see this again later.) 

String operators: Separate set of comparison operators for strings: 

eq, ne, lt, gt, le, ge

    if ($name lt "zzzzz") .... 

Concatenation operator: '.' 

    $output = "Hello " . $name . ", how are you?"; 

Special string functions: 

* length($str) 
* chomp($var) : in place operator. Removes trailing newline and white space. 
* split(' ', $str) : returns pieces of string, in a list. (separated by the
  first arg. 
* reverse ($str) : reverses the chars in the string. 

        $line = "Hello there everyone\n"; 
	chomp($line); 
	@pieces = split(' ', $line); 
	foreach $str (@pieces) { 
	    $rev = reverse($str); 
	    print $rev, "\n"; 
	}

will output: olleh, ereht enoyreve

Conditionals
------------

A lot like c and java. 

    if (test) 
      { block } 
    elsif (otherTest)
      { block } 
    else 
      { block }

Note that else if is "elsif". !! 

    unless ($age >- 21) { block } 

Loops
-----

    while ($count < $end)
    {
      #do stuff 
    } 

    for($i = 0; $i < 100; $i++)
    {
      #do stuff here. 
    }

Perl uses keywords `next` and `last` in place of C/Java's "continue" and
"break". 

Perl also has named loops, and you can use this to specify which level of
nested loop next or last should continue/break should go to. 

Two additional loop forms
-------------------------

    until ($count >= $last)
    { 
      #until is like...
    }

Input/output
============

Perl uses filehandles, which are special "things" created by opening
files. 

    open(MYFILEHANDLE, "myfile.txt"); 
    #from here on, I/O operations can be called on MYFILEHANDLE. 

    $next_line = <MYFILEHANDLE>; #Reads the next line of a file. 
    $next_cmd = <STDIN>; #Reads next line from stdin. 

    print $next_line #Automatically prints to stdout. 
    
    print MYFILEHANDLE $cmd; # wrint $cmd into "myfile.txt" 
    
    @buffer = <MYFILEHANDLE> 
    # Reads the whole file, separates the lines into elements in the
    #array. 

Regular Expressions
===================

Perl Rules^2

* Perl has an exteremly powerful set of regular expression
  operations. 
* perl uses an augmented form of the regular expression syntax we've
  already leanred. 
* It allows us to specify actions as a result of matches, in either a
  transformational or procedural syntax. ("turn x into y")

* Perl supports pattern **matching**, **substitution**, and
  **translation** operations as primitives. 
* To perform regular expression-based functions, use the binding
  operator: =~ 
* The LHS of the =~ operator is the target of the
  match/subsstitution/translation, the RHS is the action to perform on
  the RHS. (no quotes needed here.) 
* An example: searching for substrings inside $a 

        if ($a =~ m/hello/) 
	  {print "Found \"hello\""; } 
	if ($a !~ m/bye/)
	  { print "Didn't find 'bye'"; }
	#don't use this. 

Patthern matching search
------------------------
Syntax: "m/pattern/", where pattern can be a regexp. 

    $status = "error: bad name or bad mode"; 
    if ($1 =~ m/err/)
      {print "There was an error."; }

Can use any other delimiter, too, including matching left/right pairs;
    if you use `/.../` delmiters, the 'm' is optional. 
    $a =~ m<foo>; 
    if ($a =~ /err/) ... #m is optional with / ) 
