<link href="github.css" rel="stylesheet"></link>
<title>CMSC 331 Notes 4/4/13</title> 


CMSC 331 April 4th, 2013
========================
More scheme stuff. 

A predicate is a function that evaluates to true or false. Can be kind of
fuzzy with things such as string length. 

Function calls on data. `(F A B)` becomes a function call in the right
context. (in this case, a read-eval-print loop). On the other hand, passed
to a function and asking it to print it, it won't evaluate it. 

Simple evaluation rules 
-----------------------
* Numbers evaluate to themselves. 
* `#t` and `#f` evaluate to themselves. 
* Any other atoms (e.g., `foo`) represents variables and evaluates to their
  values. 
* a list of n elements represents a function call: `(add1 a)`

Ddefining variables
-------------------
`(define a 100)` 

Quoting
-------
Prevents an atom from being evaluated. `'foo` prevents foo from being
evaluated. 

CAR, CDR, and CONS
==================
* These names date back to 1958, before lower case charachters. 
* `CONS` = CONStruct. 
* `CAR` and `CDR` were each implemented by a single hardware instruction on
  the IBM 704: contents of address register and contents of decrement
  register. 

Comment on names
================
* Lisp used the convention (inconsistently) of ending predicate functions
  with a p. `MEMBERP`, `EVENP`. 

Visual represntation of LISP lists: 
===================================
* A list is a data structure with 2 cells. It's a box with 2 pointers. 
* If the first one points to the number 1 and you want to point to 2 and 3
  as well, the next one points a box with a 2 and a pointer to another box,
  which has a pointer to 3. 
* Unbalanced Binary Tree. It's possible to do cooler stuff with that. 
* The sets of double boxes were called cons cells - constructing based on
  the elements. To do something like this: 

        +---+---+ 
        | 1 | 2 | 
        +---+---+

  it would be represented as `(1 . 2)` 

  **this is the only primitive data structure in lisp**

  Left cell is the `car` and the right cell is the `cdr`. 

* All of the data structures and stuff like that used in other languages
  isn't needed in lisp. 

* There's a lot of syntactic sugar to make lisp nicer for programmers: 

        (1 . (2 . (3 . nil))) == (1 2 3) 

    Just know that it's a really skewed binary tree. 

Append
======
Even though the cons cell is the fundamental data structure, we still like
to think in lists. 

Append cats two lists - and takes any number of arguments. 

If-then-else
============
* Fundamental conditional in lisp. Else is required in scheme. 

        (if <test> <then> <else>)
        (if (< 4 6) 'foo 'bar) => foo
        (if (< 4 2) 'foo 'bar) => bar
        (define (min x y) (if (< x y) x y))

* Everything in lisp is a function! 
* Lisp keeps evaluating until it hits the end. 

One more conditional
--------------------
Much more general than if.

    (COND
      (condition1 result1) 
      (condition2 result2)
      ...
      (#t resultN)
    )

The answer to all lisp's problems: Throw more parenthesis at it! 

Example cond: 

    (cond ((not (number? x)) 0)
          ((< x 0) 0) 
          ((< x 10) x) 
           (#t 10))

Defining functions: 
===================
    (define (functionName parameterList)
         functionBody)

Example: 

    (define (diff x y) (if (> x y) (- x y) (- y x)))

Another example: 

    (define (member x lst) 
    ;; x is a top-level member of a list if it is the first element
    ;; or if it is a member of the rest of the list. 
        (cond ((null lst) #f) 
              ((equal x (car ls)) lst)
	      (#t (member x (cdr lst)))))

Entirely done with recursion! WOAH. Lisp's stack doesn't go beyond 2. 