

Today's Topics
--------------
* Touch on the notions of variable extent and scope. 
* Introduce the notions of lexical scope and dynamic scope for variables. 
* Provide a simple model for variable environment in Scheme. 
* Show examples of closures in Scheme. 

Variables, free and bound
-------------------------

	(define (big-number? x)
		;;returns true if x is a really big number. 
		(> x GOOGOL))

* The **scope** of the variable x is just the body of the funcion for which
  it's a parameter. 
* Where is the function `GOOGOL`? 

How to define GOOGOL? 

	> (define GOOGOL (expt 10 100))
	> GOOGOL
	10000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
	00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
	> (define x -1)
	> (define (big-number? x) (> x GOOGOL))
	> (big-number? (add1 (expt 10 100)))
	#t 

`big-number?` is not using x from the global symbol table -> it's using a
local symbol table. 

Bound vs. Free Variable
=======================
In the body of this function, we say that the variable (or symbol) x is
**bound** and GOOGOL is **free**

* If a free variable has a value, it has to be bound somewhere else. 

Note: Square brackets are like parens, but only match other square
brackets. They can help cope with paren fatigue. 

	> (let [ (pi 3.1415)
	 	     (e 2.7168) ]
		(big-number? (expt pi e)))
	#f

This defines local variables. General form: `(let <varlist> . <body>)`

Let creates a block of expressions
----------------------------------

	(if (> a b)
		(let ( ) 
			(printf "a is bigger than b.~n")
			(printf "b is smaller than a.~n")
			#t)
         #f)

Let is just syntactic sugar for lambda 
--------------------------------------

	(let [(pi 3.1415) (e 2.7168)]
	  (big-number? (expt pi e)))
	  
    ((lambda (pi e) (big-number? (expt pi e)))
	  3.1415
	  2.7182)
	  
let and let*
------------

* The let special form evaluates all initial value expressions and then
  creates a new environment with local variables bound to them, "in
  parallell"
* The let* form does it sequentially. 
* let* expands to a series of nexted lets

	    (let* [ (x 100) (xx (* 2 x))] (foo x xx))
		
		(let [(x 100)]
		  (let [(xx (* 2 x))]
		    (foo x xx)))
