<link href=http://notes.joshgordon.net/style.css rel=stylesheet></link>

#CMSC 331
Class Notes

2013-03-14

#Bottom up Parsing
YACC is a bottom up parser. Top down vs. bottom up. 

Machine has grammar rules, constructs an action table and a goto table. At any
point in time the state of the machine can be described by the stack of tokens
and states. 

Two operations: 

+ shift 
+ reduce
+ accept
+ reject

Uses table to look at current state and next token, that gives it a operation
to do and a state to go to. 

##What reduce does: 

+ `Reduce n`: Reduces by rule n. 
+ Then uses goto table to determine what state to go to next. 

#YACC

Don't necessairly need to know how to build tables - but need to understand
concepts to know what YACC error messages know. 

`lex` takes input stream and output tokens. Passes two things out to `yacc`: 

+ type of token
+ value fo token

grammar goes into `gram.y` or other `.y` file. Gets compiled into `y.tab.c`
through yacc. That then gets compiled with gcc into an executable. 

Going directly from table to compiled code may be faster, but going through
gcc is easer. 

##yacc input file: 
    Definitions
    %%
    Rules
    %%
    Supplementary code

###Rules Section: 
CFG with specfic syntax. 

    expr	 : expr '+' term
    		 | term 
    		 ; 
 
etc. 

`{ $$ = $1 + $3; }`

Dollar signs refer to the returned value from lex. 

`$$` means us. `$n` is the value of the nth thing. 

Default rule: `{ $$ = $1; }`

+ Rules can be recursive in YACC
+ Rules *may* be ambiguous
+ Uses bottom-up Shift/reduce parsing
++ get a token
++ Push onto stack
++ Can it be reduced? 
+++ yes: reduce using rules
+++ no: get another token. 
+ YACC can't look ahead > 1 token. 

YACC will analyze grammar, find 


#Syntax directed translation
Every handle has to be processed. 

##Terany Operator: (a?b:c)
Absolute value example: `(x >= 0? x : -x)`


HW4: 
----
Todo: Convert the desk calculator to prefix notation. 


This is a test. Bye. Hello? 


     Hello world. 
     This should look like code. 
     Goodbye. 