
Cloud Computing
===============

* What is cloud computing: UMBC uses the NIST standards for Cloud
  Computing. 
* Enabling technologies. 

> Cloud Computing is the latest software delivery mechanism. 

* Applications are usually stored on a cloud. Can either be in-house
  or somewhere else. Can even be in a different country. 
* Commercial providers provide the IT infrastructure. 
* UMBC already uses Google Cloud. 

History
-------

* In-house - companies used to write their own software. 
* Outsourced - companies bought software from another companies. Lead
  to by the boom in PC's for each person. 
* Services on the cloud. Modern cloud computing. Buy only what you
  use. 
  
Why is it called cloud?
-----------------------
* Telcom network systems external to an organization represented as a
  cloud bubble. 
  
New Aspects in Cloud Computing
------------------------------
Hardware point of view: 
* Illusion of infinte computing resources. 
* Elimination of an up-front commitment. 
* pay for use on a short term basis. 

Advantages: 
-----------
* Cost savings
* Elasticity
* Portable and accessible
* OS-neutral. 

Challenges:
-----------
* Not mature, standards are still developing
* Provider reliability. What happens if the provider goes out of
  business? 
* Data Security
* Data ownership 
* Compliance and Legal Issues. 

Cloud Service Models
--------------------
* Software as a service (SaaS, like Google Apps) 
* Platform as a Service (PaaS, Windows Azure) 
* Infarsturcture as a service (IaaS, AWS) 


Types of cloud:
--------------- 
* Public cloud: for open use by the general public. 
* Private cloud: soley for one organization. 
* Community cloud: shared by several organizations, not for general
  public. 
* Hybrid cloud: composition of 2 or more clouds. 

Characteristics of cloud:
-------------------------
* Cost: metered pricing
* Agility - on demand provisioning
* Elasticity - on demand scaling
* Interoperable - os independent. 
* Device and location independence
* Multi-tenacy: sharing of resources and costs across many users 
* More reliable
* Centralized data
* Centralized maintenance. 

Technologies enabling cloud computing: 
--------------------------------------
* Web services
* Semantic web
* Virtualization

Web Services
------------
* Web is moving away from a collection of pages to a collection of
  services. 
* Software system is designed to support interoperable
  machine-to-machine interaction over a network. 
* Interface is described in a machine processable format. 
* Other systems interact with the web service using SOAP messages. 

Soap file. XML standard. 

WSDL
----
* Presents the metnods a service provides and how they can be
  accessed. 

UDDI
----
List of all possible webservices. 

Semantic web
------------
Web of data that enables machines to understand the semantics. 

* Component of Web 3.0. 
* **RDF** resource description Framework
* **OWL** Web Ontology Language
* **SPARQL** protocol and query language for smantic web data
  sources. 

Virtualization
--------------
Creation of a virtual version of something, such as a hardware
platform, operating system, a storage device or network resources. 

* **Hypervisor** Software that creates a virtual machine on the host
  hardware. 

MapReduce and Hadoop.
