# Levittown
Mass produced houses. "Cookie cutter suburbs" 

Middle class leaving the cities and into the suburbs. 

Would not sell to Jews or Roman Catholics - only WASPS. 

Unrealistic view of the world
-----------------------------
* reflected on television. 
* About 3.1 million TV sets sold at 1950. By 1955, had reached 32
  Million. 10k a day. 90% by 1960 had TV sets. 
* TV reflected Protestant, white, upper middle class. Very "perfect." 

* TV dinners. "Taste like hell" 
* Frozen concentrated OJ 

Polio
=====
* No cure
* Iron lung
* Cure developed in the 1950s. 


Criticism of the period
=======================
* Very conformist - White shirt and tie was the norm
* Everything looked the same. 

Revolts against conformity
==========================
> The silent generation. 
* reaction to the red scare.
* 1951: Novel by J. D. Sallinger: "Catcher in the Rye." 
* Refugee from upper middle class prep-school, alienated from the world. 
* Theme of Youthful alienation. 
* Theme of Alienation 
* Rock 'n' Roll for a new generation. 


National defense education act: low cost loans for kids to go to
college. Had to show need and get accepted. Also had to major in science or
engineering. 

Duck and cover 
==============
Practicing in case of nuclear fallout... So stupid. 

Election of 1960
================
* Pivitol election
* reflects changing time of era. 
* VP Nixon serverd 2 terms under Eisenhower
* Becomes Presidental nominee in 1960. 
* Challenged by JFK, senator from MA, known for seducing women. 
* JFK was behind in polls and shouldn't have had any chance of winning. 
* Kenedy knew he would be in trouble unless he did something to give him a
  leg up...  
* Kenedy challenged Nixon to televized presidental debates. 
* First time debates had ever happened for a presidental election. 
* First time on TV, too. 
* "Media cool" personality. 
* He rehearsed. Nixon comes into Chicago from the campaign trail, didn't
  look good. 
* Those who listened to the debate on the radio, but those who watched it
  on television thought Kenedy won the debate. 
* Image was a decisive factor in the 1960 election. 
* Kenedy won by 1/10th of 1% of the popular vote. 118 votes apart. 