<link href="github.css" rel="stylesheet"></link>

<!--<link href="http://kevinburke.bitbucket.org/markdowncss/markdown.css" rel="stylesheet"></link> --> 

##HIST 102
##4/4/2013
#Cold War America

Official start of the cold war: 9/2/1945

Period immediately following WWII: Cold War. 

* Never an open conflict between US and USSR. :: 
  Proxy wars - Korea, Vietnam. 
* Communism vs. Capitalism 
* Totalitarianism vs. Freedom
* Atheism vs. Theism
* Nationalistic competition for empire and hegemony. 

Strong component that many people forget about: Religious element. 

Marxism was atheistic vs. the west which was theistic. Denial of religious
beliefs on one hand, toleration on the other.  The cold war began long before
WWII ended. 

* Truman representing England
* FDR for US
* Stallin? for the Russians

(Truman|Stallin) had already driven the Germans out of most of Europe. The
partitioning of Europe had already been undone before WWII was over. 

Spheres of influence dividing Europe. Eastern Europe was communist controlled,
western Europe was democratically controlled. Eastern block or iron curtain
countries. Western side was liberated - allowed whatever government was there
before to re-establish control. 

An Iron Curtain descended on Europe. Communist countries will not be free
until the 1990s! Whenever a country tried to rebel, the soviets sent in tanks
and just crushed the revolts. 

Truman Doctrine: 
> I believe that it must be the policy of the US to support free people who
> are resisting attempts at subjugation by armed minorities or by outside
> pressures. (March 12th, 1947)s

Turkey and Greece were trying to be cut off by the communists, but the US
government sent aid - so it didn't work. 

**THE US IS STAYING ON THE WORLD STAGE, AIDING COUNTRIES TRYING TO RESIST
  PRESSURE FROM THE SOVIET UNION!** 

Military aid and economic aid are two halves of the same walnut. 

##European recovery plan: 
* Marshall plan
* June 5th, 1947
* 1948-1952
* $18 billion in aid (about $80 B today) 
* Resulted in 40% in European productivity. 

### First great crisis of the cold war

* Berlin Blockade: a real test of containment. 
* Germany is partitioned into two countries. 
* Berlin, while in East Germany, is divided into east and west Berlin. West
  side split into British sector, french sector, American sector. 
* People were flooding from east Berlin to west Berlin. 

Soviets wanted British, French, and Americans out of west Berlin. Soviets
blocked off land entry into west Berlin. 


##Berlin Airlift
> We stay in Berlin. Period. --Harry Truman. 
2000 tons of supplies per day for 10 months. (That's 600,000 tons!) Made the
dictatorship look like exactly what it was... 

## Next crisis spot: Korea. 

Everyone thought that the cold war would stay in Europe. Nope. Would move to
North and South Korea. Communist in Northern part of Korea. Still, to this
day, people want unification of Korea. 

Soviets are the supporters of North Korea. June of 1950, North Korean forces
surprised the small south Korean army and the US army almost all the way out
of Korea. Then the US/South Korean forces surprised the North Koreans and
pushed all the way to china. 

China came in and supported because they didn't want a US controlled territory
on their southern border. They go back and forth until a truse is called. This
is still ongoing to today. Harsh military dictatorship. Uneasy alliance between
China and North Korea, but China does not want North Korea unified - they don't
want capitalism up against their south border. 

North Vs. South Korea: Contrast between communism and capitalism. Failing
economy vs. thriving economy. 

The US is now enganged with 33k men in 3 years in the cold war. They end in
stalemante. 

Police states scared of any kind of favorable information filtering in from
the west into the east. Harder to censor now with the internet. 

Red Scare
=========
Second red scare after WWII. Same time that the US is challenging the spread
of communism, there's a second domestic red scare. (Fear of Communist
infiltration and spying inside the US.) Late 40s-early 50s. Containment of
domestic communism. Starting first thing on Tuesday. 