04-09-2013 Red Scare
====================

Alger Hiss
==========

Whittaker Chambers

Accused of being communist. 

Indited by purgery. Goes to jail for 5 years for purgery. Did not go to jail
for espinage because it had been too long... 

Julias and Ethel Rosenberg
==========================
* Atomic Spies
* Arrested in February 1950
* Executed 1953-06-19

FBI made an arrest. 

Sometime in September of 1949 the soviets exploded an atomic bomb. Was said
that 2 years of work were saved by spying in America. These spies were
ongoing. Claims that they were Americans, that it was anti-semitism,
etc. After the soviet union colopased, KGB came over and claimed to be
control for the Rosenbergs. 

> Government conspired to execute Ethel Rosenberg. She would not testify
  against her husband. 

Julius Rosenbeg's motivation: soviets get bomb, no one else gets destroyed
because of mutually assured destruction. 

Sen. Joseph McCarthy
====================
* R, Wisconsin
* 2/9/1950
* "I have here in my hand a list of people in the state department who are
  spies." 205 names, later ammended to 168, then 57. List was never
  produced. If he had a list, he never prooved it. 
* Respected by the public for doing the right thing. 
* Makes very **strong** accusations. 
* Never once revealed communists in government. Got people fired, but they
  could proove their innocence. 
* Army-McCarthy Hearings (4/22/54-6/17/54) 
* Charges the army with communism. Finds a dentist who might have once
  attended a club which *might* have had some communists in it.... No
  evidence of anything... 
* Proceeds to keep going up the chain, starts accusing top generals of
  communism. 
* Esienhower began to leak damaging information to the press about McCarthy. 
* Would break into libraries to gather information, read selectively. 
* Arym-McCarthy Hearings: Ad Hominim: Attack their character. Accused people
  of being farries. 
* Cleaning lady accused of stealing documents. Grilled by McCarthy. 
* McCarthy didn't have **any** evidence. 
* He accused the law firm for having a communist. 
* Prominant for about 4 years. Condemned by the senate. 

The "Golden" 50s
================
Time of unprecented affluence. 

Remembered as a time of supreme American power. 

Election of 1948 - Truman
=========================
* Up for election in 1948. 
* Widly believed Dewey would beat Truman, to the extent that the Chicago
  Tribune printed headlines before the election was over. 
* Truman Won! 

"Fair Deal" 
-----------
* Continuation of FDR's "New Deal" 
* Proposed a long list of programs that would continue the social reforms. 

For example: 

* Higher Minimum Wage
* Subsidized housing
* Expand social security
* Expand the G.I. Bill 

About a dozen other items, but they failed to pass. For example: 

* National Healthcare. 
* etc. 

Rejected by the democratically controlled congress. 

Why was it rejected? Public Affluence. 

Eisenhower took stpes to make sure that what was left stayed. 

* Instutionalized New Deal
* Dept. of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
* GNP rose $227 billion -> $488 Billion. 
* Median family income $3083 -> $5657. 
* Real wages rose by 30%. 

Public: We don't need government, but we expect them to come to our rescue
when we need it. 

Ike
===
Landslide over Stevenson 457-73. 

Wanted no more government social programs! (WHY CAN'T WE HAVE THIS TODAY!) 

* 6% of the World's population consuming 1/3rd of all goods and services. 
* "NEver had so many people anywhere been so well off." 

Resons for that: 

* Reconversion: Smooth transition back to consumer goods after the end of the
  war. 
* Consumer Credit: Symbol: creation of the credit card. 
* Labor Movement: Higher benefits. Transition from blue to white collar. 
* Devense Spending: brought on by the cold war. Very important factor to the
  economic boom. 13B to 49B, 4 years later 50B. Peacetime military build up
  because of the cold war. Defense Spending created more jobs. 
* Post-War Baby Boom Generation: Largest generation in history. Minimum of
  100k more babies than predicted. 4.3 million babies at peak in 1963? 

Prior to 1962, tax percentage for the very wealthy: 90%. 



