2013-09-03
==========

Instruction Set Archietecutre
=============================
It is where you tell the computer what you want it to do. Very basic
operations. Needs two main things: 

1. What's the operation you want to do
2. What's the data you want to operate on. 

Assembly Language
-----------------
A perfectly reasonable assembly instruction in some assembly language: 

    add $r1, $s0, $s1

which is equivelant to 

    r1 = s0 + s1

Assembly is a super high representation as to what the CPU needs to do in
repsect to the actual CPU. Below assembly language is...

Machine Language
----------------

    0x02324020
	
The Assembler takes the assmebly code and turns it into machine language. 

Computer architects decided what goes into machine code and assembly
language. Examples of operations: 

* Arithmetic
* Data transfer
* Logic, shifts too. 
* interrupts. 
* Control. Branches, jumps, etc. 
* I/O
* String
* Matrix/vector operations. 
* BCD => Binary coded digits? 

The instruction set from the First intel architecturs in the '80s and
hasn't changed much. Programs from 8080s in the 80's will still run on
modern hardware. (I/O has changed.) This is a result of intel buiding upon
the architecture instead of nuking it and starting over. 

CISC/RISC architectures. 

CISC = Complex Instruction Set
RISC = Reduced Instruction Set

CISC => To get computers as fast as possible, make as many instructions as
possible. An example is the x86 architecture. 

RISC => To get computers as fast as possible, make very few instructions
and make them very fast. An example that will be used in this class is
MIPS. 

Even within x86, there is an internal RISC architecture. 

Memory takes hundreds of clock cycles. Switching to another process is just
a little bit too slow, so processors generally wait. 

Faster than memory is cache; to be discussed later. 

Faster than cache are registers. 

* Operands, 3, 2, 1: 
* Registers
* Memory -> Only a few instructions that deal with memory, such as load and
  store. 
* Immediate operands


MIPS Architecture
=================

* Arithemetic Logic: add, sub, mul, div, and, or, xor, nor
* Data transfer: lw, sw
* Memory Control: jump => immediate and register. ('j', and 'jr'; 'jal' =>
  "jump and link", and 'jalr'.) These are unconditional. 

Conditional control Instructions: 

* Branches: 'beq' => branch if equal. 'bne' => branch if not equal. 'blez'
  => branch if less or equal to 0. 'bgtz' => branch if greater than 0. 


    opcodes   7 bits
    registers 5 bits * 3 
	immediate 16
	---------------------
	38 bits. 
	
* Option 1: Make the instruction set bigger
* Option 2: Make the instruction set variable length
* Option 3: squeeze. 

R-type:   000000   rs(5) rt(5) rd(5) 5b func(6) 
          000000regisregisregisE5btsfunctn
I-type: Opcode (6) rs(5) rt(5) immediate(16) 
        opcodeRegisRegisImmediateValueHere
J-type: Opcode (6) immediate(26)
        opcodeLongerImmediateValueGoesHere